Cian Shields ( KEE-ən; born 7 March 2005) is a British racing driver who competes in the FIA Formula 2 Championship for AIX Racing. He was the 2023 Euroformula Open Championship runner-up and contested the 2024 FIA Formula 3 Championship with Hitech before his promotion to F2. Born and raised in Glasgow, Scotland, Shields is of Irish descent.

Career
Karting
Shields started karting at the age of eleven in 2016. In 2017, he competed in IAME Cadets, coached by British GT driver Dean MacDonald, and became X30 Junior-category champion in the IAME Series Benelux two years later.

Lower formulae and prototype racing
In 2022, Shields began his single-seater career by joining Hitech Grand Prix in the GB3 Championship. He would take his first victory in the reversed-grid race at Silverstone, holding off Nick Gilkes in the closing laps. Until the end of the season, which he ultimately finished in thirteenth, he would take two further podium finishes.

Shields moved to the Euroformula Open Championship in 2023, driving for Team Motopark. Throughout the season, Shields took four wins at Spa-Francorchamps, Paul Ricard, Spielberg and Mugello, becoming the series runner-up. During the year, he also entered the opening round of the newly-formed Eurocup-3 series, but did not start any of the races, and drove for 360 Racing in the Prototype Challenge at Spa-Francorchamps in a Radical SR3; he won the first race in the Radical class.

FIA Formula 3
In late 2023, Shields rejoined Hitech Pulse-Eight for post-season testing for the FIA Formula 3 Championship. Later that December, Shields was announced to be driving for Hitech during the 2024 FIA F3 season. The year proved to be a challenge, as Shields finished last of all full-time competitors and scored no points. His best result came during the Barcelona sprint race, where he finished 14th. At the end of the campaign, Hitech's team manager Tom Bellringer praised Shields for his progress throughout the season.

FIA Formula 2
2024
Shields took part in the final two rounds of the 2024 Formula 2 season with AIX Racing, replacing Niels Koolen. He benefited from a pit stop under safety car conditions in the Qatar feature race to finish eleventh, though he also qualified last for both that round and the one at Abu Dhabi. Thereafter, he took part in the Abu Dhabi post-season test.

2025
Shields continued with AIX Racing for his first full Formula 2 campaign in 2025, partnering up with Joshua Dürksen.

2026
Shields continued to drive for AIX Racing for his second Formula 2 season in 2026, where he will partner Emerson Fittipaldi Jr.
During the feature race in Montreal, Shields managed to finish in sixth place after a chaotic race, climbing eleven positions to score his first points in FIA Formula 2.

Formula One
In June 2025, Shields took part in a private Formula One test with Aston Martin in Monza, driving the Aston Martin AMR23. At the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, he took part in his first Friday free practice session (FP1), replacing Fernando Alonso, and placed last in the timesheets.

Formula E
In March 2026, Shields took part in the Formula E Madrid rookie test with Cupra Kiro.

Karting record
Karting career summary
Racing record
Racing career summary
† As Shields was a guest driver, he was ineligible to score points.
* Season still in progress.

Complete GB3 Championship results
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap)

Complete Euroformula Open Championship results
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap)

Complete FIA Formula 3 Championship results
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap)

Complete FIA Formula 2 Championship results
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap)

* Season still in progress.

Complete Formula One participations
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap)

References
External links
Cian Shields career summary at DriverDB.com