The Miami International Autodrome is a purpose-built temporary circuit around Hard Rock Stadium and its private facilities in Miami Gardens, Florida, United States. The track is 3.363 mi (5.412 km) long and features 19 corners with an average speed in a Formula One car of around 139 mph (224 km/h) in qualifying. The track was designed by Formula One track designers, Apex Circuit Design, for the Miami Grand Prix, which was added to the Formula One calendar for the 2022 World Championship.

History
The track had been proposed as early as October 2019 with an initial design at the venue, with up to 75 circuit designs having been considered, and 36 being simulated. The stadium's owner, Stephen Ross, had been attempting to attract Formula One for several years before the initial design was published. Organizers for the Grand Prix at Hard Rock Stadium had an agreement in principle to host a race from 2021, but this was delayed. Miami Gardens commissioners had initially voted against the track's creation, but this was reversed on April 14, 2021. On September 2, 2021, the track was officially named as the "Miami International Autodrome".
In September 2024, it was announced that four new layouts were constructed to utilize the circuit all year in order to host other racing events besides the Formula One.
The circuit also hosted the non-championship Evo Sessions for the Formula E World Championship in March 2025, in which celebrities and other sports personalities from all backgrounds tested the current Formula E GEN3 Evo car with the assistance of one of their team's current drivers. The circuit layout used was a shortened (MIA Loop) layout to accommodate for the reduced range of a Formula E car compared to a Formula One car.

Circuit
The circuit is around the private grounds of Hard Rock Stadium, and uses new and existing roads within. The permanent asphalt pathways of the circuit are integrated into the Hard Rock Stadium parking areas. The circuit is a temporary circuit, and does not use any public streets that are located around Hard Rock Stadium, though it does cross public roads. Each year and a few weeks before the race weekend, the circuit and its safety features are assembled just for the race weekend. After the race weekend, the circuit is dismantled and Hard Rock Stadium grounds are converted back to normal.

Layout configurations
Events
Current
January: Formula E Miami ePrix
May: Formula One Miami Grand Prix, FIA Formula 2 Championship, Porsche Carrera Cup North America, McLaren Trophy America
Former
F1 Academy (2024–2025)
Ferrari Challenge North America (2025)
Porsche Sprint Challenge North America (2022)
W Series (2022)

Lap records
As of May 2026, the fastest official race lap records at the Miami International Autodrome are listed as:


== References ==